So, what did we learn through this?
We learned that with the Firebase project,
that's a big just container for
all of my Firebase services.
You create a Firebase project and
then you create a Firebase app that
allows you to connect to these services.
Then we you the Firebase SDK
to write to this services or
read data from this services.
And we use the Firebase CLI to do
deployment, but a lot went wrong.
So first of, security, like I said,
advising a DELETE request to
that database, everything gone,
and that's not good.
Also the code structure.
In every single route in every file
I was writing, import Firebase app,
get this, get that, and that's really
verbose, and we don't need that.
And also, I'm developing
against production services,
that's probably not a good idea.
We've seen all of the memes and
all the T-shirt,s about how it's
bad to do things in production.
And so these are cloud enabled services,
I should be able to do that without having
to worry about network connectivity or
messing with data across
the synchronized environment.
And also the deployment here,
I'm deploying out this.
This was my site, this markdown-me,
I'm deploying out to production
every single time to see my changes.
And that's not great,
I would like to have a staging space to
be able to do those deployments as well.
Another thing too, I kind of just very
much hand waved over collections and
documents and all that.
And I was just kind of like, hey,
I wanna write data really quick.
I'm not really thinking
about my data structure.
And FireStore is a NoSQL database.
And there's a lot of great things and
a lot of great structuring you can do with
NoSQL, but
you have to know what you're doing.
And I didn't realize it,
I was just writing data.
So what I'd like to do,
is I'd like to go and make this better.
So to do that, I'm gonna go into the best
practices setup, cd.., cd..
And then, which one is it
CD to best practices setup,
CD start, and let's open up this one.
>> Is there a place where
the final code is published?
>> Yes, yeah, in every folder there
is a start and there's a final.
And the final is already pre-baked, so
if anyone just wants to go look at them
right now that's already there, yeah.
So within here we have the same
project as we had before,
I have a different project in this case,
but it's all fine.
What I have my Firebase,
everything is all set up.
What I want to do now is I want to set
this up so I'm not talking to production
services, and I wanna rewrite my
code structure a little better.
So I'm gonna create a file
called firebase.js.
Now there are more advanced ways of
structuring your Firebase code, but
I'm gonna show something that I think
is sort of like a tried and true,
battle tested way of writing service
code that kind of survives across weird
development things like
hot module replacement,
which can be really weird with
things that are stateful.
And so I'm gonna go through, and
I'm gonna write what I think
is a really good way to
handle your Firebase setup.
So I'm gonna import from Firebase app,
and we're gonna call InitializeApp.
And then I'm gonna import from the config,
just like before, and
we'll get the config.
And then, now I'm gonna create
a function called, Initialize().
And I'll create a Firebase app inside
of here, say initializeApp and
call config.firebase.
But I'm also gonna want other services.
So I'll import from firebase/firestore.
And also want auth.
So within here all of these two services.
So I'll say get oath, just auth, sorry,
is getAuth and then getFirestore as well.
So I could just export this function,
and then from within here I
could just return all of these services
as an object for other files to use.
But I'm gonna wanna do
some more advanced things.
So if I'm running locally, I wanna run
against the Firebase emulator suite.
So Firebase comes with a whole set of
emulators, so I don't actually have
to talk over the cloud,
I get a sandbox development environment.
So I can import data into it, I can
export data out of it, I can just start
from scratch with every single run,
it makes it really easy to develop.
And the emulator suite also comes with
its own local UI that is tailored for
development tasks, that is
different from the console UI, yes.
>> When talking to the database,
does firebase setup a web
socket versus in web socket?
>> That's a great question.
>> Or
how does that data syncing [INAUDIBLE]?
>> It depends on which database you use.
So that Firebase doesn't just have one
database, it has two databases and
so the original database is
called the real time database.
And that is actually back in the days
what people used to refer to as
That's my Firebase would
refer to the database.
Now Firebase is more than
just the real time database.
That database we're not covering today
because it has shares a lot of similar
philosophies and
FireStore just has a lot more features.
So I want it to Focusing on that, but
the real time database sets up over
a WebSocket connection and
that's how that one works with FireStore.
it doesn't use a WebSocket, it uses HTTP
to do like a long live HTTP connection.
And there's a whole real time
server that knows how to send
the delta of changes that happen.
So even though you ask for
a stream of all updates if a user only
updates one document out of
a collection of 100 of them,
when that new on snapshot fires, it might
give you that whole data object back,
but it's only going to sync the changes
that occurred over the network.
So you're not doing a whole other set of
reads because it's aware of what data is
locally available and
only what data had changed.
So it really helps cut down
on bandwidth consumption